# SmartShield Backend

The SmartShield Backend manages the storage and distribution of results generated by our models.

## Architecture

The backend is built using **Nx**, **pnpm**, **NestJS**, and **Docker**, each chosen for their strengths in managing dependencies, ensuring scalability, and supporting robust development.

- **NestJS** is a trusted framework for high-traffic, high-demand systems, known for its focus on scalability, security, and robustness—making it ideal for developing resilient applications.
- **Nx** simplifies dependency management, enhances build performance, and provides tools for scaling, testing, and organizing code, which is especially beneficial as the project grows.
- **pnpm** improves dependency management by reducing disk usage, accelerating installation speeds, and ensuring consistent dependency versions, creating a more efficient development experience.
- **Docker** enables consistent, reproducible deployments by packaging the application and its dependencies in isolated containers, making scaling and deployment across environments straightforward.

### Services Managed by Docker

The Docker environment includes **Redis** and **PostgreSQL** services, each selected for specific purposes within the backend system.

- **Redis** is used for fast data retrieval:
  - Unregistered servers register with the backend to receive a unique ID, linked with their MAC address for easy identification.
  - Redis stores these server IDs, allowing for rapid access to relevant data associated with each server.
- **PostgreSQL** serves as a durable storage solution for archiving logs and annotations. This data supports continuous model training and improvements, while also storing essential data across the system.

## Usage Documentation

### Prerequisites

- Ensure **Docker** and **Docker Compose** are installed.
- Install **pnpm** globally if not already installed ( for Dev Only ).

### Production Setup

1. **Copy and Configure Environment Variables**

   ```bash
   cp .env.prod.example .env.prod
   ```

   Fill in any necessary values in `.env.prod`.

2. **Build and Run Containers**

   ```bash
   docker-compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml up --build -d
   ```

3. **Access the Application**

   - The backend API is available at `http://localhost:3000/api`.

### Development Setup

1. **Copy and Configure Environment Variables**

   ```bash
   cp .env.dev.example .env.dev
   ```

   Fill in any necessary values in `.env.dev`.

2. **Build and Run Containers: Postgres DB and Redis**

   ```bash
   docker-compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml up -d
   ```

3. **Install Dependencies and Run NestJS Backend**

   ```bash
   pnpm install
   pnpm nx serve backend
   ```

4. **Access the Application**

   - The backend API is available at `http://localhost:3000/api`.

### Populating the Database

In order to test the backend and also the React Dashboard, we can use synthetic data.

This data should be random and should simulate real-time data stream.

First, you should create a user:

- Send a ***POST*** request to `http://{{HOST_NAME}}/api/user` with this format:

```json
{
   "name": "Abdou",
   "email": "abdou@cs.ieee.insat.tn"
}"
```

- Use the ***UUID*** from the response from the server and copy it to `./populating db/generate_servers.py` in the `user_uuid` variable.
- Run the command: `cd populating\ db/` to get to the folder.
- Run the command: `python3 generate_servers.py` this will create 20 server instances simulating the servers that are within the organization and should have subscribed to the server in order to get an id.
- The previous script will collect the ids of the created servers returned from the servers. **Copy this array into** `./populating db/generate_data.py` in the **servers** variable.
- Run the command: `python3 generate_data.py` this will generate data in real time while sleeping for some time in between to simulate real-time data generation.
